ScreenShots.md, before:

![AthosIot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nothingmn/AthosIoT.Web/master/public/img/icons/msapplication-icon-144x144.png)
# AthosIoT – Screen Shots

![Manage Node Wifi](assets/ss-manage-wifi.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily change the default Wifi Settings for the System.  Once changed, you will need to Wipe each node you would like to use the new settings.
    
    
![Manage Node Firmeware](assets/ss-manage-firmware.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily delete and upload new firmware for your network.

    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-manage-nodes.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily view all the nodes in the network, including the Wifi Signal strength of each node (a percentage based on RSSI).
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-manage-nodes-expanded.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily view, in depth, each node in the network and the variety of sensor telemetry. We only include the *last* value for each data point.
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-manage-nodes-expanded2.jpg)
More details on nodes with more capabilities.
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-filter-nodes.jpg)
Filtering of nodes is possible
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-apply-firmware.jpg)
From the Manage Nodes UI, this provides the administrator with the ability to choose which specific firmware to apply to that given node.  It will immediately start the OTA process and typically in about 10 seconds the node will be back online.

Commit message:

Added more desc to the top of screen shots page

ScreenShots.md, after:

![AthosIot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nothingmn/AthosIoT.Web/master/public/img/icons/msapplication-icon-144x144.png)
# AthosIoT – Screen Shots

The following screen shots are in desktop/full width view.  Each UI will adapt to a table and phone view accordingly.
    
    
    
![Manage Node Wifi](assets/ss-manage-wifi.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily change the default Wifi Settings for the System.  Once changed, you will need to Wipe each node you would like to use the new settings.
    
    
![Manage Node Firmeware](assets/ss-manage-firmware.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily delete and upload new firmware for your network.

    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-manage-nodes.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily view all the nodes in the network, including the Wifi Signal strength of each node (a percentage based on RSSI).
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-manage-nodes-expanded.jpg)
Provies the administrator with the ability to easily view, in depth, each node in the network and the variety of sensor telemetry. We only include the *last* value for each data point.
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-manage-nodes-expanded2.jpg)
More details on nodes with more capabilities.
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-filter-nodes.jpg)
Filtering of nodes is possible
    
    
![Manage Nodes](assets/ss-apply-firmware.jpg)
From the Manage Nodes UI, this provides the administrator with the ability to choose which specific firmware to apply to that given node.  It will immediately start the OTA process and typically in about 10 seconds the node will be back online.
